## What is the "A.I. ABCs"?

The A.I. ABCs is a workshop that teaches surveys the many AI/ML tools available
for analyzing structured data. The workshop is targeted at researchers with
some programming experience but modest exposure to advanced math, stats, and
computation.

---

## Who is the intended audience?

This workshop is intended for researchers at all levels including students,
post-docs, and principal investigators. Participants are expected to have some
experience with the following tools:
* **Python**. Advanced knowledge is not required, but at a minimum students
  should be comfortable with Python syntax and familiar with NumPy and
  Pandas. Participants can learn these skills from resources on the
  [preparation page]({{ site.baseurl }}/prep).
* **git/GitHub**. Expertise with git is not required, but you must have git
  installed, and you should be familiar with basic git commands.
* **Docker**. Expertise with Docker is not required, but you must have Docker
  installed.

No advanced mathematical, statistical, or computational training is required
for the course, which will focus on high-level explanations and intuitive
demonstrations rather than theory. Some knowledge of linear algebra is helpful
but not required.

---

## Lesson Repository

The [GitHub repository](https://github.com/noahbenson/AI-ABCs) for the workshop
can be used to run the demonstrations and tutorials.

---

## About this Workshop

Around the turn of the millenium, computational methods began to gain real
traction in academic work. This trend started in the sciences and engineering
and gradually infiltrating most fields of study. Today, it is difficult to
complete masters or doctoral degree in most academic subjects without engaging
in computational methods of some kind. In short, the once niche methods of
computer science proved to be so powerful that they came to occupy a critical
role.

Similarly, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) have, since
the early 2020s, increasingly become not just powerful computational techniques
but one of the dominant classes of techniques used in many fields of
study. Although many scholarly projects can still proceed without AI and ML,
these norms are changing rapidly.

As basic computational methods spread through academia in the early 2000s, in
part due to the speed with which the methods spread, most traditional academic
departments were (and remain) slow to offer computational training to their
students&mdash;even today, many non-computational departments do not offer a
meaningful track for their students to learn scientific programming. As AI and
ML inexorably make their way through contemporary academia, this same pattern
is repeating: AI and ML are more and more important, but opportunities to learn
about them, especially for those without deep training in computational theory,
remain rare.

**This workshop seeks to give researchers with some programming experience but
limited exposure to advanced math, stats, and computation an opportunity to
survey the many AI/ML tools available for analyzing structured data.** To do
this, the workshop will focus on high-level explanations of the tools that
provide intuition without dwelling on theory. Many tools spanning a wide range
of strategies will be demonstrated and discussed. The goal of the course is to
get students past the initial struggles of learning a new field such that they
feel confident finding and navigating the mant public tutorials and lessons
that already exist in the AI/ML space.

Please see the [Program]({{ site.baseurl }}/program) for more information on
topics that will be covered in the workshop. Please [Register]({{ site.baseurl
}}/register) if you wish to attend.
